# Correlation Between Keystroke Dynamics On Mobile Devices With Time
In this research we set out to find the answer to the question of how features associated with  keystroke dynamics when using a mobile device, such as typing speed varies in accordance with the time of day for a typical user. We do this by collecting keystroke dynamics metadata using an Android keyboard application called Language Logger, from a set of 15 users over a period 80 days with metadata for 344,995 actual keystrokes.  This includes date and time of typing on the smartphone, along with timing information covering dwell time while a key is pressed, and flight time as the time taken to move to the next key, in a stream of continuous keyboard data entry.
Our results find that there are large variance across users and some are affected by time of day while others are not.However, there are other factors which impact alertness and hence typing speed which we cannot account for such as mood or energy level, and this would be future work.
# I. Introduction
As we know, mobile phones are an indispensable part of everyday life. According to a study conducted by Statista in 2020, the number of mobile users worldwide stood at 6.95 billion, with forecasts suggesting, this is likely to rise to 7.1 billion by 2021[22].The popularity of mobile phones and their easy accessibility to the internet results in people increasingly communicating via typed communication rather than oral communication. 

Interestingly, with such an increase in the use of typing information onto smartphone devices, we believe there could  exist a  relationship between typing speed on the device, and time of the day.  This could be based on the fact that people are more or less alert and attentive to their typing depending on whether they are more or less tired and this fatigue, which varies throughout the day, may be demonstrated in different typing speeds at different times of day. 

In this work we record keystroke dynamics on mobile devices during daily usage and analyse how it correlates with different times of a day. Keystroke dynamics, keystroke bio-metrics, typing dynamics and lately typing bio-metrics, refer to the detailed timing information which describes exactly when each key was pressed and when it was released as a person is typing on a mobile keyboard[19].

The rest of this paper is organised as follows. In the next section we provide a review of related work, and then the system description of the keystroke logging application we used along with the  logging information. That is followed by a description of raw data collection, the  data analysis steps, and the conclusions drawn from that analysis  and finally some indications of future work. 

